---
layout: article
title: "Blink"
modified:
categories: supercollider-code
excerpt: "A game piece based on eye contact"
tags: []
image:
  feature: 
  teaser: cows.jpg
  thumb:
date: 2015-5-21
---
Blink started out as my attempt to treat audience members like scores, using their eye movement as cues for sound.  With the help of Dr. Kennedy and SCU's New Music Ensemble, the piece has since evolved into a group activity and encourages more active audience participation.  Below are the instructions I outlined for the New Music Ensemble and the audience at my senior recital on May 17, 2015.

####Requirements
- an even number of players, no fewer than 2
- 22x28 poster-board paper* (as many sheets as there are players)

*During my recital, audience members seated in the hall used 9x12 construction paper.

####Instructions
- Select a partner.
- You and your partner begin the piece standing up.
- Delegate a player to begin the piece.  When this player pounds his or her sheet of paper, begin to lightly flap your own sheet.  Do this all throughout the piece, for as long as you are still holding your sheet of paper.
- If your partner **smiles or giggles**, flap with greater intensity until they regain composure.
- When your partner **blinks**, make a tear in your sheet of paper.  As tears collect the paper will begin to fall apart.
- If your partner **breaks eye contact**, pound your sheet of paper.  
- When your partner **runs out of paper**, crumple the remainder of your sheet and let it fall to the ground.  Both you and your partner take a seat.  The piece ends when all pairs have used up their paper.

